
Sudden Retirements Leave Phiarlan Musicians in Demand

FLAMEKEEP—A number of key retirements within House Phiarlan’s Demesne of Music has left nobles bidding against each other for top-notch musicians for this summer’s weddings, festivals, and other ceremonies.

Announcing their retirement from regular performances are Rannelli Allarus d’Phiarlan, Tyrick “the Sparrow” d’Phiarlan, Chann-soon d’Phiarlan, and Phiarlan-affiliated Korthos the Mad Drummer. And just last week, the “Mountain Shadow” quartet surprised a packed ampitheater in Sharn with an announcement that they were performing their final show as a quartet.

Instrumental musicians such as the Flamekeep Trio, the lutist Rhone Triann d’Phiarlan, and flutist Yanthri d’Phiarlan have also said they’ll be unavailable this summer, citing a demanding composition workload or illness.

Kels Tallaen d’Phiarlan, Lord Seneschal of Thrane and Viceroy of House Phiarlan’s Demesne of Music, said that while many familiar names will be unavailable this summer, the House has many musicians of “peerless talent and ability.”

“The House is more than its brightest stars, and we take our presence in important ceremonies very seriously,” Tallaen d’Phiarlan said. “The names may be less familiar this summer, but the beauty of a Phiarlan song never changes.”

Some of the high-profile retirements are surprising because the musicians are relatively young. Chann-Soon d’Phiarlan, for example, appears to be in her mid-thirties—although her “river quaver” singing style is notoriously exhausting.

And the fact that Ranneli Allarus, Tyrick, Rhone Triann, and the Mountain Shadow quartet all performed “Ballad of the Twin Pines” in their final performances led some music patrons to wonder whether strife within House Phiarlan led to the wave of retirements. The ballad tells the story of two young lovers who run off together because they’re stifled by strict families.

Tallaen d’Phiarlan said such speculation is “imaginative, but utterly baseless.”

“Anyone within the House, if they’re being honest, would admit that there’s a certain level of tension whenever you gather so many creative, talented people together. But there’s no greater reason behind the retirements—just a confluence of separate events,” he said.